Welcome back.
Let's talk about function's scope vs. block scope.
These are very important terms when it comes to well any programming language remember scope means what
variables we have access to and JavaScript has function scope.
Right.
Every time we create a function we create a new execution context which has its own variable environment
but you see most other programming languages have something called block scope.
So what's the difference.
Well it means that with a function scope if I created let's say an if statement and let's say if five
is greater than four which it is and I create a variable here called secret and I have a super secret
password because javascript uses function scope I can actually access the password like this.
If I click Run I'm able to access this password because this variable is functionally scoped.
That means we only create a new scope a new environment when there is a function if this was a function
well in that case with function scope we can't access the secret now in most other programming languages
the use block scope and block scope is.
Well anytime I see a block of code that is these curly brackets I'm going to create a new world a new
environment in other programming languages.
If I do secret here I wouldn't be able to access it like I can.
And javascript saw this and said I want to be able to do blocks scoping too.
How can I do that.
Well with E6 they introduced the left and the concept keywords and they allow us to use block scoping.
Let me show you.
If I run this Oh I can't access secret if I had the let keyword.
Oh no.
This secret.
Well it's definitely secret now I can't access it.
You see variables declared inside a block scope such as an if statement or let's say for loops can be
accessed from the outside of the opening and closing curly brackets.
When we use function scope when we use things like var but now with the introduction of let and var
we can do this which gives us a little bit more power.
Now that doesn't mean that you should never use var I mean most of the time you probably should just
use light or concert but let and costs are just block scoped alternatives for variable declaration.
So let's see how this can be useful to us in the next video we're going to do a little exercise and
let's see if we can solve it.
It's gonna be a hard one.